i will start with a little bit of basics
um
and uh
just for uh
one thing
prerequisites for everyone who codes
along regardless of whether it is in the
jupiter hub or on their own system um
what you should check right away you can
do this uh here in the jupiter lab i
have it uh you should be able to see it
in my screen share the very first thing
that you should make sure is that
everything
has succeeded software-wise so if you
run
data layer version you should see
something similar to what i'm currently
seeing the important part is this
version indication
if you're also seeing
this
message here is highly recommended to
configure git
then uh that's expected especially in
the jupyter hub so what data that does
to create this version history is that
it relies on
git
to create these entries and get needs to
know your name and your email address in
order to do this doesn't really need to
be a real email address but it's also
not a bad thing
so what uh you need to do in order to
configure your so-called git identity
is to run a git config set command you
can just
go to
um
[Music]
to this
so you can you can copy it from from my
slides or you can go to
uh setup
um on the
no it's not set up can you remind me
where we have the instructions here
yes so this is the first module content
tracking with datalot and it's a heading
called setting up oh great thanks yeah
this is something which you can simply
copy
or you can
simply type it
the same way that
i'm doing it right now i'm giving it my
name if there's a space included i'm
including i'm adding these brackets here
let me just quickly
copy it
i'll be john doe for the remainder of
the session read this regard the set
here
that's a mistake i'm really sorry
um
okay and once your good identity is set
you can
run for example the config list and then
it should tell you that there is a
username a user email and if you then
run database version then you shouldn't
receive
this warning here
anymore
um
so
also a quick prerequisite we'll be using
the command line today to use datalite
and there we'll just use the datalit
commands that will introduce you but you
can also use it from its python api so
if you're a python user then you can
include this
import statement or a similar import
statement of your choice in your python
scripts and then have access to all of
the commands
in the typical
python way but if you are a user of r
matlab any other programming language
then you can include data that calls via
system calls if you're an r user this
would be the
command to use in order to use data like
commands
whenever you use dataled you
have a certain command structure and if
you're not used to command lines um
then this uh might be uh
a little bit new so we're talking about
it
there is a main command and that's
called data led and this main command is
always the same
and then there's a sub command and
that's a specific datelet call to run
for example they tell it um create
both the main command and the sub
command so for example create have
options the
version was a main command
option that comes directly after the
main command but there are also options
for the sub commands and they would come
right after the sub command so for
example
um
[Music]
the command the main command right here
is data that the sub command is safe and
then there are
two options here one is dash m it's a
fairly common option it's short for dash
dash message so there is always a short
and the longer version the longer
version is a little bit more descriptive
but you can
use either and then there's a second
command
a sub command option and that's the
cursive
one very important feature
is
knowing where to look for help this is
true for almost any command line tool
that
you
might be using
whenever you want to find out about data
led commands or how to use a specific
data like command there is a dash dash
help
option
for both the main and the sub commands
if you use dash dash help then you will
find a very comprehensive help it
includes very long descriptions of all
of the options it includes examples
it
includes
some general notes
if you want to you
use the short h option you will just get
a summary help message that shows you
which options uh
are available
for this
command or sub
command you can read about this in this
short section how to use
datalat
and
let's now actually start by
creating this main structure this core
data structure uh the so-called data
data set which is just a directory um
that is managed by datalit
and will
create it
but it can also be installed we can see
this later all linked
and um if you want to code along then
uh quickly paste
this into the chat so that you have it
right
there available for you
uh and we'll start with this subject so
section here
create an empty data set
uh you can see that there are sometimes
um cells
that are called bash and sometimes cells
that are called output
when coding a log in the jupiter hub
just include
the bash cells
not the output size the outputs contain
expected outputs but not every bash cell
has an output cell so
to code along simply copy
this
command here and paste it
into your jupiter hub control c control
v should work for everyone hopefully
and execute any command that you have
copied
um by hitting the enter button
please give me a quick indication
if that uh has not worked for someone
could you resent the link again in the
chat so we
because it didn't arrive in the i mean
it's the zoom chat right oh sorry yes i
accidentally send it to
only a single person sure
here it is
so with this command data create
you have created a new um directory on
this file system here a new datalet
dataset the main command for datalit
create actually only needs this
name which is the name of the directory
or data set that is to be created
um we're
extending this here with an option that
you will learn a little later about the
dash c or config option which applies a
special procedure
that i will not talk about too much
right now
but it contains a little bit of
configuration to
determine how the version control tools
in this dataset work
now
the dataset that we've just created is a
join git and git endings repository so
uh do feel free to
execute those next few commands here um
the first one is cd change directories
into this data set so that you actually
now are inside of it
on your file system and then you can
do a list command with the option-a
which is short for all
to display all of the files that are in
this directory and what you can see here
is that there are a couple of hidden
files on unix systems you have these dot
files
it's a concept of files being hidden by
default they're used for configuration
files and a data set has a couple of
these dot files also dot directories and
they indicate that even though this
looks like a normal directory i can also
open it here in the file browser
because the dot files do not show up
unless i list them explicitly all
they are hidden but these dot files
indicate there are version control tools
uh at work and whatever you do don't
delete them
that would be detrimental um
but uh this is an indication that
version control is at work and a data
dataset i've already told you this is a
git and git nx repository so at the core
of this is a git repository then there's
a guidance repository wrapped around and
then data adds a couple of functions and
commands that you can use in them but
it's just a version controlled directory
so
can you maybe make your terminal font a
size bigger oh definitely
oh i think it's better
i think so cool
so uh let's um
sorry
no nothing sorry okay
uh let's
get an idea of what version control is
for those who haven't used it by um
talking about version control from a
local perspective from an individual
user and
version control is useful for any
individual outside of any kind of
collaboration to keep things organized
to keep track of changes and revert
changes uh or go back to previous states
of a data set and this is the first
feature of version control local version
control that we're going to look at
and that is basically a feature that
prevents the situation illustrated here
by this comic
so datalite knows two things datasets
and files we already have a dataset now
we can put files inside of it
and whatever file we put in there
it is version controlled all with the
very same command so what we're going to
do now is um to actually create a very
simple file
and that file is a readme file
if you scroll down to the section on
version control
then
you have the instructions to create a
text file readme.md you can create this
via all kinds of means
i am used to working solely from the
command line so i'm doing stuff like
this
but you can also
just click on this plus to
uh
no not the plus sorry
um
directory either right click here or
file
new something
yeah cool things so you can also create
a new file call it readmemd
[Music]
and then
open it
and then i can open it with an
editor
and now i'm putting some contents inside
of it
i'm hitting ctrl s to save
but if i were to use nano as it is
instructed from the terminal i can
edit this
file in a terminal editor this terminal
editor has a couple of shortcuts
to
save and close it if you use nano
then you need to use ctrl o
to write
the file so to save it
and then ctrl x to exit the editor and
come back to your terminal
the data set that we've created it keeps
track of everything that happens inside
of it and now that we have put a new
file inside of it
that is a status change and this status
change
or any kind of status change it can be
viewed by running a command that's
called data status
you can see that when i run this command
it reports in this case
two files
one is residue of the
of the jupiter hub so i'm quickly going
to
remove this file
it's a directory so i'm going to run
mrfit
and
now this directory this data dataset has
exactly one new file and this is called
untracked because we haven't actually
given it to the version control tools
here
to to keep track of it
and the
command to use
to
save any
file in your data sets is dataled safe
data that save has a very useful option
that i advise you to make use of it's
the dash m short for message option
that you can
use to append a short human readable
description of what you have just saved
so if i run this
um
i have saved
the file
into my data set
in its current state so that data status
is what is called clean with nothing to
save and a clean working directory
what we can do now is to take a look at
the version history
that has been recorded so far it's
really tiny
but
if you
type the word tick that's git in reverse
a very useful little tool that you might
need to install on your personal
computer if you want to use it but you
can recommend it
uh you have a
version history of everything that was
done you can see that
no i'm john doe now but a couple of
minutes ago
i created a new data set and that's the
command that we'll talk later about but
here you can see the most recent change
to this data set which is
at a short readme if i hit enter on this
on this line
i can also get a more extensive summary
this is the commit message so the
message that i have appended
i can see that it involved this file
here
which has
new three new lines appended to it and i
can even see the additions that have
been done to this data set
as if
this hasn't worked for anyone then
please let me know i will just briefly
summarize
uh the version control that we've just
seen here so
whatever file you put into a data set
even if it was just the small readme
file it can also be a different file
regardless of size
when you run data that's safe
this
file in its current version will be
saved
into your data set if it's an untracked
file it will be version controlled if
it's a modification then this
modification will be added to your
version history
um
we will continue by adding a couple of
more files just to just to
get a muscle memory for that
and
this is where we start to develop a
little toy use case
which is a very
small image analysis basically or image
image modification that we will run on
jpegs on
photography
so what we'll do
for in the next couple of commands we'll
add just a couple of jpegs into our
repository and to keep that structured
i will create a new directory and
add those files to it and version
control them
if you are also
just currently in this tick software
tool that shows you
your version history the
way to get out of it
is by pressing q the the letter q as
often as needed to
close all of the views that are open
um
just the letter q as
michael already
said in the chat
so
what i'm what i'm doing now is
i'm going to run the mkdir make
directory command
again you can also do this here
by
right clicking
in this
file viewer here
and i'm going to create a
directory or rather two nested
directories
called inputs and images
so that i have a little bit of structure
in my data set
here is
so the first um
image that we're going to to include in
this uh
in this data set comes from the web
and
i'm running a command from the terminal
in your own computer you can do this
also just with any file browser browser
of your choice w get is a command that
takes a url
and downloads it into this output
directory that i'm giving it here
if i now run this
tree command that i've already mentioned
then
you can see the directory structure that
this has created and how there is a new
file
in this
in these two directories i can also
open up them
uh in
my
jupyter hub this is a little bit let's
see if i can make this smaller so what
we've downloaded is this
cute little image
of a penguin of three penguins
and
it's a little bit too large
so the image viewer uses minus and
plus or actually minus or equals to to
scale the image
if you do the standard control plus you
scale
all the jupiter
thanks
all right
um and just to
be very kind to any other fellow human
that maybe receive this this data set
later maybe we share it with them
we also do another addition to this data
set and that is a little bit of
information on what structure to expect
in this data set and add it to the
written it's good practice to just have
these human readable files
in your dataset
that
help
fellow humans to navigate
so
you can basically add
any
data
um that you that you want
any any
text that you want you can copy it
i'm just saying that there are penguin
photos in inputs and images
and
now i probably have created a little
mess with nano
uh
just doing it
from now because i
like it
so
uh this
if you've um
done both the download of the
penguin image and the modification of
readme file then you have several
modifications in your dataset right now
we have a new file in untracked
directories and we have a file that is
already known to version control tools
but
it has been modified so if we run data
let's status you can see
um several untracked things and the
checkpoints here do you know
a way in which i can tell jupiter to
have to not create those files
i don't know how to tell jupiter hub how
to not create it but we can
we can probably tell git
and take a lot to ignore this file yeah
with kitty yes yes
well i'll skip that for now
um
i might just save it
as residue
yeah it's a bit inconvenient sorry about
that
now um the important um the important
information about data led save is that
if you don't
apply any further
specification to it it will save every
single modification or untracked file it
finds in your directory so running data
let's save in a directory full of data
will save all of the data
that is not always a good practice
because as you will see when we
interact with the history a bit you want
to create a git history that is very
intuitively structured in a way that
each individual
save each individual commit
contains a standalone change uh that
if need be can be reverted without for
example affecting other files of your
data set or uh other
other work that has been done in your
data set so the modification of the
readme edition of additional context
is completely independent of this new
penguin file that you have added
so in order to save a single
modification
you can simply append the path to the
specific file that you want to change
that you want to save in your data let's
say
so here again i'm adding a commit
message and then also a path to the
penguin image
and that will have saved only the
penguin image and now to only save the
readme file you can see that i have
also this unchecked directory from
jupiter in here
i'm also
creating a database save with a commit
message and a path to readme file
okay
so to
um quickly summarize that in case you
have been working with it beforehand um
the data let up api that i've just shown
you makes version control a little bit
easier than with git because whatever
you do to the data set whether it's
creating new files whether it's
modifying existing files
whatever it is a data let's save
version controls it
and
as to reiterate the advice it's useful
to save meaningful units of change
standalone units of chains and it's also
useful to attach helpful commit messages
so that this
commit message
the the revision history of your data
set has
a
nice
very human friendly summary of
everything that has been done
if you
then want to use these features on your
own system for your next data
acquisition
then you can use this to not only
version control penguin images but you
can also use it to version control
really large data there is no upper
limit for file size here
if you have a terabyte
sized file it's completely fine today to
let's save it
now
i'm already displaying it here in this
tick
um overview the revision history that we
are building up here is
very very useful if done right because
it can become especially in the context
of research a complete research log that
captures everything that you have done
and
with time passing it will be very useful
to be able to go back into this research
block to actually find out what has been
done and because this also works for
large files you can extend this to
larger larger data sets
experimental
results
and so forth and
at the end of this session we're going
to also show you how to interact with
this history a bit
the next um
feature that we're going to to um
preview a bit is um provenance tracking
that includes
um
the or
recording the origin of files that you
retrieve um from the web
uh but before that let's maybe stop here
we have a nice question in chat and we
have a raised hand so
uh maybe let's start with chat
can you build comments like in git add
files before deciding to save so that
you can be more specific as to which
files to include
do you want to or shall i
um
maybe you um so what lucas is referring
to here is i think
what is in get called the staging area
um
where which is basically a pre
stage where you can add all kinds of
files or specific changes
that are then
saved
you can do this not with solely datalit
commands so
datalet skips the the staging area
but you can do it with purely git
commands if you want to
uh so a git add
works exactly um as you
as you would expected and then you can
get commit uh you can also date let's
save
wait so i can
add files with git
and then use data.save instead of git
commit
in principle
okay
it doesn't make version control easier
though so you still have to
i mean if but if you're if you're if
you're used to using it then
by all means i could i can use git in
the data that data set and it would
still show up in the data that history
yeah yeah
it's just it's just that you should not
use git add for your um nifty images
so um i will talk about this uh in
in the in the session on the version
control details um
in more detail but uh yeah
but any kind of thing that you would
normally use git for like um
your code if you want to if you want to
stage like with when you use
to to just include chunks of
modifications
in your manuscript and so forth that's
perfectly possible
um
is there a raised hand still
yes so um what's the flag next to the
name in the ticker's history
uh the flag next to the name which the o
and the i what does that mean
um
oh this thing
exactly yes um this is a visualization
of um
the
development history
of the
of the data set of the git repository uh
we'll have a session on branching later
today uh and once we include several
branches in data sets this will not only
be o's and eyes but you will see a
little tree-like structure that branches
out
and will give you an overview of
basically independent development
histories that
you can you can have in git repositories
but that's uh that's going to be a
little bit more clear in one or two
hours
thank you
but as far as i understand the o's are
meant to be
visual more than yeah
more than anything
and then basic question log of changes
start locally within the dot files can
you export the log as a file i've never
tried to export a git lock you can
certainly just write it out
and then copy it that's completely
possible
the way that it is stored internally is
more complex than just a single text
file though um
but nothing speaks against for example
writing all of the contents that you can
see here into a text file automatically
and then you have it also
and if you publish your datasets to it
for example then you also have a nice
web-based visualization
so i'm running terribly late
uh i will so maybe for a short comment
we'll use this as an opportunity to say
that tick is just a program for
previewing the history and the comic
messages
uh the git log
is the more standard but less visually
appealing way to do the same but then
you can also add some formatting whether
you want one line format or longer or
whatever
um okay so i'll
try to make up for
my slowness a little bit
by
continuing with the next command that
we're going to use that is a data
command that will be used to download
another um photo from the web
previously i've used wget to do this
data download url has a couple of
advantages when adding any kind of file
that
originally comes from the web if i
run this command what datalit does
internally is not only downloading this
file and saving it underneath this new
directory you can see it
being added here in this overview as
well it will also automatically create a
commit about this
data that status will show
just the stupid
jupiter checkpoints but no
um
new or untracked
image you can see that there was a safe
happening
if i go and take a look in the
history you can see that datalat has
created a commit on its own and included
a commit message that's called download
urls
and it includes the url where this came
from in the commit message but
importantly and you will see this also a
little bit later it not only includes
this in the commit history it also
created a currently invisible
and
[Music]
uh not yet relevant but relevant later
entry about where this
file has come from and it will be able
to automatically redownload it whenever
you need it
so that
is the first bit of digital provenance
that
adds information on the origin of files
to your data set
and just a comment while here we are
downloading imaging from unsplash that
is
a collection of permissively licensed
photographs that make
for nice wallpapers for nice
presentation images
we we like to feature download url
because it is the same command that you
would be using for
for many online repositories of research
data
so you can imagine that this be this
coming from this being a
date data coming from from a public
source and there's uh there's a similar
command uh ad urls that we won't cover
today
but this it's for bulk downloads
so to just summarize the commands that
we've included so far
the datalit create command creates new
and empty dataset which you can use to
version control files we have create uh
used it with a configuration and those
configurations are really useful even
though i haven't told you why yet
um the data set that you create with
this command has a history and
this history is
what's called a git history so you can
explore it with git
that's with the command git lock it's
not as pretty as tick
but you can also use external tools if
you are using any other external tools
you can they they work just as well in
data sets
the data that save command is the
command that you use um as a data led
core api command to record data sets or
file states to the history um you should
add commit messages that summarize your
changes in order to create a
human readable
history in your data set
um dataled download url is a command
that
includes a data let's save command
and what it does it you can give it any
url and it paints the web content and
then also records where this has come
from
in a commit message and internally
and then data led status is a very
useful command that
will give you an idea of
what is the current state of your data
set it's really useful to run it
frequently you've seen me being confused
by those untracked files repeatedly
so it's always useful to run data and
status before you save else it can
happen that you just are not aware of
some unchecked files that you then
save
accidentally
the next
[Music]
parts of the
code
in the workshop
they
are minor we can
we can we can skip them but
you can use them to just uh
yeah practice data like saving
a little bit more what we do in
a bits inspired fashion is to not only
have the image files of our
photographies in our dataset but also
add some what is called sidecar files
that include useful
metadata to the
to the to the contents of our data set
if you're working with neural imaging
data then you might use the bit standard
which has
been a great
beacon of including
all of the metadata that is necessary
for others to understand
what is happening or what certain images
are about about brain images and making
them machine readable in standardized
formats so that tools can automatically
use them
um
[Music]
i'll quickly just
um do that and you can follow along if
you want to
but
this ads is just
metadata about the photographer the
license and the penguin count in each
dataset
for each of the two files in what is
called a number file it's a common way
of structuring
metadata
with these changes i have
so many unchecked files
that i can now data let's save
and i will include
uh
paths to
these specific files because i don't
want to save
the
uh jupiter hub residue and what i'm
going to do is i'm going to use this
little star here because i'm lazy and i
don't want to type two parts so this
will save both files because it matches
the description
um okay
so
if there are
any questions
then please uh
feel free to to just ask them
uh
in case you don't have any questions i
have a question for you that you can use
i actually have a question sorry yeah
sure sure um so these yammer files is it
totally arbitrary what kind of
keys and values you put in there or is
there some kind of
well set that you can use
uh it's completely arbitrary uh it's
just it's just the structure and it's
also just an arbitrary format that we
used
mainly due to its human readability
um
all right yes yeah so most people uh
all of the people that are participating
uh have this question uh correctly
commit hash is a 40 character string
identifying changes and i want to
use a minute to
talk about the
elements that
commit
in
revision history has because it will
become relevant for the next brief
session
so
the commit hash the 40 character string
is this gibberish that is right here
this is a string that uniquely
identifies
any
save any commit in your data set and it
is very important
because it can be used to interact with
a specific part of your history or
specific commits
um there are other means to identify
commits um we'll talk about them on the
next slide
um and
that enters the realm of time traveling
and the
commands that are useful to interact
with the history and reset it to
specific
states it's very useful
also also also are ready for local
version control because whatever you do
the mistakes that you might make while
doing it are not forever anymore
whatever past changes you have made in a
data set they can be transparently
undone so if you've written some code
and it turns out to not work then you
can undo them if you have deleted some
code and you really want to have it back
you can have it back
really easily
and you can also become a time bender it
requires a little bit of git knowledge
but when you've mastered it then you can
travel back in time rewrite history and
basically time is fluent and
fluid and at your disposal
and for for this it's uh quite handy to
understand in what ways get assigned ids
and and so-called refs or references
and uh one way
it does this so one way you can identify
a specific change that you might want to
interact with
it is this commit sha this character
string typically you don't need to copy
or type all of this
the first
six characters are
unique enough so that you can uh and so
that you can limit yourself to only
including these
first six ones
a different um
type of reference is what is called
branch names
going to come in the session afterwards
but common branch names that you find in
data sets are either main
or master those master is was the old
default main is the new default
depending on your git version uh
depending on your configurations um
this this will differ you can see that
this thing here is a master branch so
it's called master and i could refer um
to the changes um onto this brand on
this branch with
um with this name here
there are also tags those are just
labels that i can give to
commits in software development for
example
it's uh
standard to include the version
identifier as a tag like v01
um and then there is stuff that is
called head which is a little bit weird
but a head is what is called a pointer a
little um
reference to
the
most recent commit on the branch that
you're currently on
so my head currently points to this
commit on the master branch and if i
were to
for example
run get show that shows me a commit on
head i will see the most recent commit
but i can also use notation like this to
go back in time so this is head minus
one uh and then
i will see the commit before that and
head minus two the commit before that so
this is also
one way to refer to changes in a data
set
here is a little bit more complex stuff
from va repository here you can see that
there is
more than just a master branch you can
see that the branch name here is
different uh you can still see a commit
id there's no tag
um
and this is something
yeah that
can be all of these can be used to refer
to two specific changes or just changes
in order to
follow through with the next commands
you need to go to
the bottom
middle middle of the page
and that's called breaking things
and repairing them
and in order to
break things and repair them
let's actually break things
so um back in your jupiter hub
you can
open up the readme file that you've so
meticulously version controlled
and simply remove
everything from it uh for example if
you've done an accidental
save or
ctrl a delete
um i'm saving this file i'm
going out of the editor and if i run
data lab status i can see that it is
modified and if i can if i run then
um a command that's called gdif that
shows me the difference between the most
recent version state and the current
state of files
then i can see that all of the contents
of my precious readme
have been removed
this happens
often sometimes you have
changes that
you actually
didn't want to have
could also be accidental new lines and
files
and
one command that you can use as a
convenience
to
revert or to reset
a currently modified file to the state
it used to be in before or in the last
in the last recent commit
that
is called
git restore
so if i run and this is
just as a heads up kind of
destructive command or a dangerous
command but if i run git restore readme
and then take a look at the contents of
the readme they
have reappeared
now
it is dangerous because in case these
modifications here
were not destructive
let's say i have wouldn't have deleted
everything but i would have made useful
additions but where to run git restore
this is one of the very few get commands
that cannot be undone it cannot be
transparently redone it cannot
whatever you lose with git restore
can can cannot come back to life in no
way um but it is a very useful feature
for people that
are a little bit lazy uh like me
so i wanted to
i wanted to say uh to to show you that
and now uh to break things a little bit
more
if i open up the readme again
and now i'm doing a really bad addition
to this that
doesn't really make sense it might be
this might be a script and i'm
up a function
or it might be
participant information and i'm
changing
valid information to wrong information
whatever it is it's a bad addition
but now i'm saving it
so i'm saving a bad addition
and now it is part of the version
history
of my data set and a couple of
weeks days later i might think oh
that's
that's been really bad what i can do in
order to
um unbreak things
is to run a command that's called bit
revert and get reward is a nice command
because it's so transparent
get revert transparently reverts what
has been done in a past commit and it
also saves this to the version history
so that you can even revert
revert
the one thing that you need for this is
you need the identifier of the commit or
the range of commits that you would want
to report and in this case here yours
will be different so you need to do this
yourself
um
i'm actually going to
run get show so that i can
do this
all on the same screen
if i run git reward
of this
first few bits of the commission
then i'm also
adding this option here that's called no
edit
that
simply tells get i don't want to create
an individual commit message it's fine
if git just creates its default
then
the contents of the readme
are restored to what they were
and the revision history has a new
commit that was done under my name
that transparently
undoes what has been done
in the past and i can then
also take the commit identifier of this
revision here
of this commit and revert it as well if
i then figure out oh no it's actually it
was a good idea edition it was actually
useful that i
removed this function or that i added
this parameter
um
there are a couple of commands that you
will see
later and that is um get checkout the
checkout is a command that will be used
for basically time traveling um
and then there are commands that i
really want to mention they're a little
bit out of scope here but very very
useful to know
um if you
um ever want to
really get into the topic of time
traveling and
get history
rewriting and and bending and then i
encourage you to read about the commands
entry base and get reset
those are commands that you can use to
actually
change or rewind history without
creating these transparent commits it's
not in our case is recommended because
the revision history is a very valuable
thing to have
um
but there are certainly very valid use
cases where you really want to get rid
of a commit or where you really want to
for example reorder the
um
the the commits that you have made so
just to register
these commits with you they're called
for base and
reset and then
there is a command that i want to share
with you that is not so well known even
among it users
and that's a little bit of a life saver
because working with git repositories
especially when you
are interested in using it and then
explore a little bit
[Music]
there are complex operations that can
also go wrong
but as long as everything is saved there
is a command that can undo everything
that has been done
wrongfully and that is what is called
the git ref lock it's a time limited um
lock of everything that has been done
and if there's anything in your revision
history or in like your terminal history
that turned out to be not what you
intended to run or had consequences that
you didn't anticipate you can undo
basically uh every mistake uh with it
um
sorry no there's a little bit sorry
and uh the only two commands that get
refluck can
not
restore or the only actions where wicked
reflect cannot save you if something
goes wrong so you should be should be
quite mindful
in using them the one is git restore
and the other one is is keep clean
i can actually show you what git clean
does it's also for lazy people um i'm
going to
run it with three flags i'm going to
show you what they do later
the n flag is a
dry run flag that will not actually
execute the command but simply report
what it would do
um get clean as a command that cleans up
your repository from untracked files so
if you run this with files that you
haven't saved yet but that are important
don't run it
but in this case i have these stupid
untracked files and i just want to get
rid of them
and so i can run git clean
d stands for remove directories f stands
for remove files so if i run this now it
has removed those files
and
i have a clean status again
but again it's it's kind of a
destructive things so so be a little bit
careful about it
um
i have a question
yeah so if you have any questions now um
please feel free to ask them we'll go
into a short break
afterwards and you can occupy
or entertain yourself with a multiple
choice question
while we wait for questions if